= github_uploader =
GitHub has no web GUI to let users upload binary files to repositories.

This is a tiny django app that uses the GitHub API v3 and OAuth2 to let people push binary
files like images to a specific directory in a GitHub repository, so long as they have push
permissions to the repo.

This app was made to provide a convenient way for non-git-savvy people to add media to 
various NeIC websites, which typically have their jekyll source hosted on GitHub.

== Features ==
* Preview of images before upload.
* Makes miniatures of uploaded images on request.
* Serve multiple uploaders, for different directories/different repos.
* Reskin uploaders individually.
* Does not allow delete or overwrite.

== Requirements ==
* HTTPS capable webserver.
* Python2 >= v2.7
* Python modules: django, requests and pillow.

== Installation ==
* Install dependencies.
* Configure webserver to serve this app over https.
* Create local_settings.py in a dir outside of the repo, on PYTHONPATH, inaccessible to outsiders.
* Edit settings.py. Keep all secrets and local config to local_settings.py.

== Configuration ==
See [[github_uploader/local_settings.py.example]] for examples.

=== New settings ===
===== GITHUB_CLIENT_ID (required) =====
===== GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET (required) =====
Get these from your GitHub Application page. Keep them secret.

===== GITHUB_UPLOADER_REVOCATION_RETRY_PERIOD =====
Time window in number of seconds where the clearsessions_github management command will retain an expired session that contains a user access token which it has not been able to revoke. Past this time window, the command will delete the expired session including the access token.

===== GITHUB_UPLOADERS (required) =====
Dict of uploadername:repoconf
* uploadername: most often the GitHub reponame, like neicweb.
* repoconf is a key:value dict.

The keys and values of repoconf are as follows:
* '''full_name (required)''': url components "owner/reponame", like "neicnordic/neicweb".
* '''description''': Short human understandable description of the repo. Default is "".
* '''hidden''': Do not advertize on first page. Default is False.  
* '''scope''': github scope necessary to access this repo, default is GITHUB_UPLOADER_SCOPE.
* '''branch''': branch to upload to, default is 'master'.
* '''path''': path to dir to upload to, default is GITHUB_UPLOADER_PATH.
* '''media_root''': path to local copy of upload dir, for checking for collisions. Default is os.path.join(MEDIA_ROOT, uploadername, path). Explicitly setting this empty or None disables collision check.
* '''media_url''': url to dir where uploads will eventually end up, for showing results. Default is os.path.join(MEDIA_URL, uploadername, path).
* '''static_url''': url to dir where to find the staticfiles for the github_uploader app for this repo. Default is STATIC_URL.
* '''miniature_size''': (X, Y) max size of miniatures in pixels. 0 means proportionally scale to fit other dimension. (0, 0) is illegal. Default is (200, 0).

Example:

 
 GITHUB_UPLOADERS = {
     'neic2017': {
         'full_name': 'neicnordic/neic2017',
         'description': 'NeIC 2017 conference slides repository',
         'hidden': True,
         'media_url': 'https://neic2017.nordforsk.org/slides/',
         'media_root': '/var/www/neic2017.nordforsk.org/html/slides/',
         },
         
     # This one is not shown in the list on the first page (anyone who has the 
     # url can still use it):
     'neic2017': {
         'full_name': 'neicnordic/neic2017',
         'description': 'NeIC 2017 conference website media',
         'hidden': True,
         'media_url': 'https://neic2017.nordforsk.org/media/',
         'media_root': '/var/www/neic2017.nordforsk.org/html/media/',
         },
         
     # This one is reskinned using custom staticfiles:
     'neicweb-devel': {
         'full_name': 'neicnordic/neicweb-devel',
         'description': 'Sandbox for NeIC website development',
         'media_url': 'https://neic.nbi.dk:59443/media/',
         'media_root': '/var/www/html/media/',
         'static_url': '/static/neicweb-devel/',
         },
     }

===== GITHUB_UPLOADER_SCOPE =====
Default github scope necessary to access repos. Default is 'public_repos'.  

===== GITHUB_UPLOADER_PATH =====
In-repo path to upload to. Default is 'media'. 

== Reskinning uploaders ==
You can reskin uploaders by adding new templates and static files. See [[#Useful settings]] below for how to do this outside of the source tree.

=== Templates ===
To use custom templates for your uploaders you can override either:
* <code>github_uploader/upload.html</code> or <code>github_uploader/show.html</code> for changing the default appearance of uploaders.
* <code>github_uploader/UPLOADERNAME/upload.html</code> or <code>github_uploader/UPLOADERNAME/show.html</code> for changing the appearance of an individual uploader.

The default templates use the context variable <code>{{ STATIC_URL }}</code> to refer to static files like css, images and javascript, which can be controlled with the 'static_url' parameter of the repoconf. Check the source code for the corresponding view functions in [[github_uploader/views.py]] to see what other context variables are available to these templates.

=== Static files ===
To use custom static files for your uploaders you can override either:
* <code>STATIC_URL/(css,img,js)/*</code> for changing the default appearance of uploaders.
* <code>STATIC_URL/UPLOADERNAME/(css,img,js)/*</code> in conjunction with the 'static_url' parameter of the repoconf for changing the appearance of an individual uploader.

If you use custom templates for an uploader you can of course put your staticfiles anywere.

=== Useful settings ===
You can use the DIRS setting of a template engine and the STATICFILES_DIRS setting to reskin your uploaders without changing the source tree.

===== TEMPLATES[...]['DIRS'] =====
The uploaders use two templates: upload.html and show.html, and looks first in `github_uploader/UPLOADERNAME/` and falls back to `github_uploader/` if not found. 

Example: 
 
 # DIRS=["/path/to/reskin/templates"]
 /path/to/reskin/templates/neicweb/upload.html # Custom upload template for the 'neicweb' uploader.

===== STATICFILES_DIRS =====
This is normally used to override or add more staticfiles, outside of the source tree. This can be used in conjunction with the GITHUB_UPLOADERS[...]['static_url'] setting to use the default templates with a custom set of static files.

Example: 
 
 # STATICFILES_DIRS=["/path/to/reskin/static"]
 # GITHUB_UPLOADERS['neicweb']['static_url'] = '/static/neicweb/'
 /path/to/reskin/static/neicweb/* # Edited copy of default static files.

== Further reading ==
More info on the NeIC [https://wiki.neic.no/int/Webserver_manual internal wiki].

